Thank you very much.
The first question you should have is,
alternative to what?
And I would guess that somewhere
between 99 and 100% of people developing
QuickTime software right now are
using a fairly restricted set of tools.
Either they're programming in straight C,
or they're maybe using an
object-oriented language like C++,
or Objective C, or Objective C++,
or even Java.
And these are all of a
family of C-oriented tools.
What I want to look at today
is some other programming
environments that we could use to
develop QuickTime applications.
So, what are we going to learn today?
Well, that's me and Keith.
We're going to look at how to
build a QuickTime application,
and we're going to do it
in 10 minutes or less.
And for several of these environments,
we're going to do it in
10 lines of code or less.
Once we've done that,
we're going to look at some
ways to extend these built-in
support for QuickTime in each of
those application environments.
Along the way,
we will encounter some limitations
that these various environments have,
and we'll also look at some
ways to work around those.
Finally, at the end,
I will give some guidance to the
people developing those development
environments as to how I think they could
be made even better than they are now.
We've got a full plate today.
We may not get to Q&A,
but I think you'll enjoy what we've got.
So, these are the standards that,
as I recall,
I'm guessing most people are using
to develop QuickTime applications.
MetroWorks CodeWarrior
on Mac and Windows,
probably using C++ and perhaps the
PowerPlant application framework.
If you're developing for Windows only,
you're probably using
Microsoft Developer Studio,
possibly with MFC application framework.
And if you're developing for Mac only,
chances are you're
using the new Apple IDE.
So what are some of the alternatives?
Well,
I went casting about to see what I could
use to build QuickTime applications
without resorting to those old standards.
And I came across at least these eight.
And if anybody knows any other ones,
I'd love to hear about them.
I don't have time to talk about eight
different programming environments today,
so I'm going to pick the top four there.
These are all similar in many ways,
as we'll see.
And one nice feature that they have
in common is that they're what we call
rapid application development tools.
The idea being that in very little code,
with very little pain, and indeed,
as I've claimed, in 10 minutes or less,
you can get an application up and
running that will do what you want.
So let's...
I'm not going to build
a full multi-document
application in any of these.
So I've got to sort of limit
what I want to achieve.
So for each of these four environments,
I want to do three things, really.
I want to be able to prompt the user,
have the user select a
QuickTime movie file.
I then want to open that movie
file in a window on the screen
that is sized to contain just
the movie and the movie file.
movie controller bar.
So really there's three things.
I want to find a file,
I want to open the movie in the file,
and I want to size the window to exactly
contain the movie and its controller bar.
Now, once I've done that,
the hope is that the window will
present all the standard means of
interacting with the QuickTime movie.
So basically,
mouse and keyboard input should
work as you expect it to.
And one final and very important item.
Once I've done all that and I've
got my movie open on the window,
open in a window on the screen,
it shouldn't matter what kind
of QuickTime movie I've opened.
QuickTime can handle a large
range of different media types.
Sometimes we tend to think
of it as video and sound,
but we have things like QuickTime VR,
sprites, animation, flash.
In the ideal world,
each of these applications would
handle those things perfectly.
"And let's show what I mean there.
Can I get VGA 2, I guess?
So I've got a selection here of
I'm just going to drag them
all onto a sample application.
Now this is the kind of thing
that most people would write.
It's a C-based application.
The code has been on the
web for this for years.
Here I've got your standard music video.
Open in a window on the screen.
There really is audio here,
I guarantee you.
Okay, so that's what most people tend
to think of as a QuickTime movie.
Here's a different kind
of QuickTime movie.
This is a sprite movie,
and this is a wired sprite movie.
So I've got this little icon bouncing
around inside the movie window.
Here's a similar looking movie,
but it doesn't bounce,
but I can drag it if I come
over here and click on it.
So I'm getting mouse interaction there.
Here's a QuickTime video effect movie.
It's a fire that just burns.
Here's a QuickTime VR movie.
This is a rendered panorama,
not photographed.
Again, it's got a different sort
of controller bar down here.
And finally,
here's another wired sprite movie.
If I click on the penguin,
the other one moves around.
Okay,
so that's really the gold standard of
the kind of interactivity that I need for
each of these development environments.
First one I want to
talk about is REALbasic,
a very nice development environment.
It's been around on the
Macintosh for quite a while,
and recently has been ported
to work on Windows as well.
It's published by a company
called Real Software.
As I said, it's a rapid application
development tool.
We'll get a better feel for what
that means in just a second.
The language we're going to use is
an object-oriented variant of BASIC.
As I said,
the IDE runs on Mac and Windows,
and you can build applications on
either IDE to run on Mac and Windows.
And for present purposes,
what we're interested in is that
there's built-in support for
playing QuickTime movies using what
they call a movie player control.
So I think we're ready
for a demo of that.
So I'm going to come over
here and launch REALbasic.
I'm using version 4.5.2.
There's actually a
newer version out there,
but I haven't got it yet and don't
want to change horses in midstream.
So when I launch REALbasic,
I get an empty window here.
That's going to be where the movie is.
I have a window that shows me
what's in my application right now.
I have a palette of tools that I can use,
and then I have a properties window,
which will tell me for the given
selected tool what its properties are.
So the first thing I'm going to do
is grab this little QuickTime icon
and drag it into my window.
I want to put it up at
the top left corner there.
You can see the top is a negative one,
so let's bring that down.
I want the movie to
exactly fill the window,
so I'm going to uncheck
this border property.
If I were, say, in part of a window,
I might want a nice border
to delimit the movie.
And that's my setup for the window.
I don't need to resize this control,
although I could to fit the window.
I'm going to do that later
programmatically with code.
So let's do that.
I'm going to double-click
on the movie player control,
and it brings up a code window.
So I can attach code to
elements of the interface here.
I'm not interested in the play event.
I want to attach some
code to the open event.
So when this window opens and
the movie player control opens,
the code that I type
here will be executed.
So what do we want to do?
Remember, I want to do three things.
I want to find a file,
open a movie in that file,
and size it appropriately.
So the way I get a file is get open.
So I'm going to do a folder item.
I need to tell it what
kind of file I want.
I'm going to want to
open Video QuickTime.
This is just a MIME type specification.
Okay, now this is going to present the
standard file opening dialog box,
and it's going to return
to me a path name,
or an item.
Actually, not a path name,
but an object called a folder item.
So I'm going to say item is
equal to the result of that,
and since this is basic,
I have to declare that variable,
and it is of type folder item.
Okay.
Notice there was the code completion.
All I had to do was hit tab
to get what I wanted there.
Okay, once I have presented the
file opening dialog box,
the user has selected a
QuickTime movie file because that's
all they'll be able to select.
I want to make sure that I got something,
so...
If item is not equal to nil,
then I'm going to have a block of code.
Okay, and what am I going to do there?
What is the object that
this code is attached to?
It's a movie player object.
That movie player object has a property,
what its movie is.
So I can say myMovie or me.movie is what?
It's the result of opening
that item as an editable movie.
Finally, I want to set the height
and width appropriately so
I can say "me.window.css".
"Width equals what?
It's going to be the controller
Width of the movie that I just opened.
And now I'm going to copy and paste that.
Do the same for height.
And height.
And I'm done.
I can close that.
In theory, I could run this,
but actually it won't work.
I need to do one further thing.
I need to tell REALbasic what
kind of file types I can open.
So I'll call this up, and I will add
There's this nice pop-up
list that goes on forever.
Video QuickTime,
it fills out all the parameters for me.
OK, OK.
Now let's try it.
We can actually run this
within the IDE by hitting Run.
There's my file opening dialog box.
I'll choose a nice music video here.
It opens it, sizes it,
and let's see if it works.
Perfect.
So how many lines of code was that?
It was one, two, three, four, five, six,
seven, really.
Seven lines of code, select a movie file,
open it, size the window appropriately,
and we're good to go.
Let me...
Save this here, because I'm going to
come back to this later.
I want to give it a name.
Notice I've selected OS X build.
Let's call it RB Demo.
Then I'll actually build a
double-clickable application,
and it nicely opens the finder
up and shows me where it put it.
Where did it put it?
Let's put it on the desktop.
Okay, let me do one more thing here.
Let's run this again.
Let's open that Fire Movie.
Notice this.
While I'm moving my mouse around,
the fire burns.
If I stop the mouse,
the fire kind of sputters,
and it's not getting events here.
I can do the same thing if I go back
and open the bouncing sprite movie.
While I'm moving my mouse around,
events are getting processed,
everything's hunky dory.
When I stop, I get this jerkiness.
I discovered, purely by chance,
a real easy workaround.
If I grab this timer tool,
plunk it down there, give it, say,
a 33 millisecond period.
Now let's try running it again.
FireMovie burns fine.
So simple little clues there to
make sure that events are sent
to the movie and we can now,
now we're happy.
Okay, so that's REALbasic.
Now I want to bring Keith up here
to talk to us about Visual Basic.
I think most people have
heard of Visual Basic,
and what we want to do today is
just do a simple application that
opens a movie and plays that movie.
So, as the slide says,
it's a rapid application development.
This is kind of interesting.
I just did a little search on
the web and found out that it is
pretty much the biggest development
environment used on Windows today.
The latest version is VisualBasic.net,
and that'll be the one I'll be using.
A lot of people are still
using Visual Basic 6,
which is still pretty powerful.
What we're going to do is show
how easy it is to hook into
several of the ActiveX controls.
And those controls,
there's three of them that
we'll look at and talk about,
but we're going to use one,
and the one we're going
to use is from Skylark.
ActiveX controls are just COM objects,
and if you're familiar with
development on Windows,
they're used throughout
a lot of the development.
They're very easy to add to Visual Basic.
A little bit harder to use in C++ and C,
but with Visual Basic,
you basically drag them over and you
can double-click and hook them up.
The ones available active
X controls for QuickTime,
you get one with Apple Computer,
and that's installed
automatically with QuickTime.
There is one from Skylight
from Skylark Associates.
[Transcript missing]
So the first thing I'm
going to do is bring up the
visualstudio.net environment here,
and we're going to
create a new application.
Except that it's waiting
to install some stuff here.
Okay.
So I'll come over here and
just set a new project.
And we're going to select
Windows application.
What'll happen here, it'll create a basic
application with one form.
We could actually run this
and this form would come up.
Nothing would happen with it.
So what you do over here,
the first thing we want to do is
if you look over in this far left,
you'll see all the controls.
These are ActiveX controls.
And the first thing I want to do
is I'm going to add a menu to mine
and add a couple items to them.
I'll add an open, whoops,
I better name my menu.
Okay, I've added a few items.
With these ActiveX controls,
over in the far left,
you'll notice that you have a bunch
of them for doing check boxes,
radio buttons,
and you basically just drag them over.
Sometimes you don't
have ActiveX controls,
these are the basic
ones that come with it,
that you will have to actually add to
this list so you can drag it over first.
And to do that is a
right mouse button click,
and then you would go over to
– that thing just disappeared.
"Add/remove items,
and then you could browse to
your OCX ActiveX control and
just add it into your list.
Once it is in your list,
you just drag it over to the form.
I'm just going to size it,
fit the window.
It's not necessary.
We'll do some dynamic sizing in a second.
Okay, so what we've done so far,
we've created a base application,
added a couple menus,
and we've dragged the ActiveX control.
Now what we have to do is add the code to
connect all that and open up the movie.
Let's do that next.
So if you double click
on one of the menu items,
it brings you over.
And I'll go back to the form itself.
Let's do them all.
Okay,
so it set up all these little menu items
that it'll call when we select that.
Now I have a,
to save time and everything,
I'm just going to copy some code here,
but I'll go over the code itself.
Just a couple routines
here to size the movie,
to open a movie,
and bring up a file dialog.
Lastly, if you program in C,
you know that you have to,
with this particular ActiveX control,
you need to call initializeQtml.
Okay, this should pretty much
do it for the code,
and then I just should be
able to call these functions,
and if we're lucky enough,
everything will work.
So on the first one,
what we want to do is call OpenMovie.
The second one was a closed movie.
And these are precooked
functions that I had set up.
And the last one...
[Transcript missing]
So let's take a look at OpenMovie.
You saw what Tim did before and
basically brings up a file dialog.
We do a little bit of,
in this particular thing, we call,
We just call new Open File Dialog
and put in our types here,
extension we're looking for,
and then we call here to show the dialog.
And after that,
we do a little sanity check to make
sure that we got a good result.
This is the real key in
that the ActiveX control,
and I can show you what happens here.
We'll type one.
And Visual Basic, if you do, oops,
I didn't want to quite do that.
You can see all the functions
that are available to you,
and you can select those.
So that's a really nice feature here,
and you can see what that
particular ActiveX control offers.
So what I did, I just went ahead and
precooked a couple things,
and I set the movie
controller to visible,
and in this particular one,
I set the open file dialog
file name into the file name.
That is what it takes to open up a movie.
After that, what we'll need to do
is to size the movie.
So we're looking at the natural
height of the movie here.
So I do a little calculations and get the
natural width and height of the movie.
And I add the movie controller.
In this particular instance,
we know it's 16, so I just add 16 to it.
I think you probably want to do a
little more work here and figure out
if you're going to have a controller
or not have a controller with it.
Down in the load of the
actual form and the control,
we're going to initialize QuickTime,
and then when we exit,
we're going to just terminate it.
So if I type everything right and copy,
we should have an application here.
This is a demo version.
So I come over and open.
It opens a file dialog.
I lost all my movies.
I'll just grab one of these.
These are some of the
movies that we had before.
Also, I had set up a close.
I could close it,
or it automatically closes.
Whoops.
That wasn't supposed to happen.
Okay, so we'll do the fire here.
This is running good, huh?
There we go.
Let's try that again.
You know what I didn't do here?
I didn't size the movie.
So that's the thing here.
There we go.
Okay, you can see the amount of
work here to put support for
QuickTime is fairly minimal.
It was really,
if you look at the AX Skylight 1,
there's only a handful
of lines to do that,
I think about four.
So adding application support
for using Visual Basic and
QuickTime is fairly easy.
Okay, I'll turn it back over to Tim.
Okay, before I move on to there,
let me do something fun here.
Was this my project from
before with REALbasic?
Let's hope.
Okay.
VGA2, are we there?
So I just opened the REALbasic
project that I had before.
Let's go in here to Build Settings.
Let's click one checkbox.
Let's go in and give this thing a name.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, now I've got this little USB thingy
that I'm going to hook in here.
What I want to do is take that
exe file and give it to Keith.
So if all goes well there, it will mount.
I'm going to copy.
The Windows executable onto
that little thingamajig.
Okay, I will now unmount it.
Keith will now hook this into
his USB port and see if it runs.
So now can we go to VGA1?
[Transcript missing]
If you've ever had to port an application
from Mac to Windows or Windows to Mac,
I bet it was not as easy
as clicking a checkbox,
copying it onto your USB dongle,
and moving it to another computer.
So that's really powerful.
That's just fantastic.
Okay, can we go back to slides?
So there's the basic portion of our talk.
I want to move on to the higher-level
scripting language portion of our talk,
and now I want to talk
about RunTime Revolution.
Of the four environments
that I'm talking about today,
this is the one that you
may not be familiar with.
Put out by a company in
Scotland called RunTime Revolution.
Again, it's a rapid application
development tool.
This time, the language is a descendant
of HyperCards language,
HyperTalk, and they call it Transcript.
Again, we get cross-platform
development capability.
The IDE runs on either Mac or Windows,
and indeed on some versions of Unix,
and you can build applications
for Mac or Windows.
And they do have built-in support for
QuickTime using a movie player control.
Let's get straight to a demo of that.
So now we're back to VGA2.
So I will launch Revolution.
This is the latest version, 2.0.1.
If you've used earlier versions,
I highly recommend you update to this.
They've done a whole lot of work
to make this latest version a
real nice Aqua Mac OS X citizen.
So here it opened a palette of tools,
similar to what we've seen in
Visual Basic and Real Basic.
Here's sort of an application browser.
And I don't yet have an empty window.
What I'm going to do is come
up here and do new main stack.
And I'm also going to get
my cheat sheet up here,
because you didn't really think
I remembered all this stuff,
did you?
So there's my movie window.
What I'm going to do
then is come over here,
select my QuickTime player control,
drag it out,
again set it to the top left,
and I want to pull down my properties
window on screen in theory.
So that's saying that the current
selected object is Player 1.
I want to give that a different name.
I want to call that Movie...
I want to turn on the controller,
and I want to again turn
off the border property,
because I'm going to size
it to fit the window.
Okay, now I want to give my movie window,
I've clicked the window down
here and not my player up here,
so I want to give it a name.
Let's call it MovieWindow.
And I think I'm ready to add some code.
Now I'm going to click in
the movie window again,
come up here and say Edit Script.
And it opens a script editor window.
This is where I'll type my code that's
associated with the movie window.
So, again,
I want to do something when the
stack or the window first opens,
and the way I do that
is with onOpenStack.
And notice if I hit return,
I automatically get the end open stack.
Very nice feature.
Remember, I want to select a file,
open a movie, and size it appropriately.
The way I select a file in
transcript is by saying answer file.
I can now give it a nice prompt,
select a movie file,
and I can tell it what
type of files I want.
"No typos there, excellent.
So when that returns,
it's going to have the file name
of the file that the user selected.
So I want to set the
file name of the player
"MoviePlayer" is the result
of the previous command I ran,
which is the answer "file", so
that file name will now get set as
the file name of the MoviePlayer.
That is to say,
it will tell it what the movie is.
So that's get a file,
and that's open the movie.
Now I need to size things appropriately.
Set width of me.
Remember,
I'm attaching code to the movie window,
so I can refer to that object as me.
Set the width of me to the
width of... And I'll just copy.
[Transcript missing]
And now I need to do one final thing,
which is set the rectangle occupied
by the movie player control.
And that rectangle is going to be 0, 0,
width of movie player,
height of movie player.
And I'm done.
I will click Apply, close that window.
So that's all the code I need to add.
And that was what?
That was a whole seven
or eight lines of code.
A couple final enhancements here.
In the movie window,
I don't want it to show the resize box,
so in size and position,
I'll turn off resizable.
And I think we're good to go.
So let me first save this.
Okay, something goes wrong.
Desktop, good.
Let me build the application.
I need to set a few
configuration settings here.
Where was it?
I want it on the desktop.
I need to,
so I'm set up for a Mac OS X application.
I need to tell it what stack file,
and in theory, where did I put it?
There it is right there.
And I think I'm good to go.
Okay, so I think I can quit that.
It should be in this folder.
There's my double clickable application.
So there it is.
It's put up the file
selection dialog box.
I will go to my movies folder.
See what it does to... There it is.
It resized it.
Does it run fine?
Is there some reason we're
not getting audio here?
It really does support audio.
Okay, let's try a couple other of those
movies just to make sure that it's
good for all of our media types.
Here's our QuickTime VR movie.
It works fine.
Let's check the keyboard.
I'm going to use the arrow
keys here to pan around.
That works fine.
I'll use the shift key to zoom in.
Control key to zoom out.
Everything is fine.
Let me do one final one.
Let's try our sprite movies.
Bouncing Sprite.
Doesn't want to bounce.
There's an issue here with
getting time for the Sprite movie,
and I haven't quite figured it out.
I've been talking with
the Revolution people,
and I think we've figured
out how to handle this,
but just so you know that I'm
not trying to hide anything here.
Okay, I think that's what we
need to do with Revolution.
I could do the same thing
that I did with REALbasic,
which is go back in and click the
checkbox to build a Windows application.
I could have Keith come back up here
and run it on his Windows machine,
and it would be exactly
what you'd expect.
Okay,
the last thing I want to talk about,
or the last development environment,
is AppleScript Studio.
This is the newest of the bunch.
It's put out by Apple Computer.
Again, it's a rapid application
development tool.
The language now is good old AppleScript.
So whereas you're used to having
AppleScript control other applications,
now you can have AppleScript control
things in the same application.
This is built on the
Cocoa application framework,
so we're looking at Mac-only
applications and indeed a
Mac-only development environment.
So let's launch the demo of that.
I'm going to get to AppleScript Studio by
launching Project Builder,
which apparently has been
renamed under my feet.
You'll notice I'm doing
everything here on Jaguar.
I don't believe that the
Revolution or REALbasic have had
a chance to play with Panther yet.
If they have, I don't know that they've
certified their tools for Panther,
so I'm doing it on Jaguar here.
Okay, Project Builder is open.
I'm going to open a new project.
And right up here at the top of the list,
beside from Empty Project,
is AppleScript Application.
So I'm going to select that.
Let's call that AppleScript Studio Demo.
I didn't make up the name.
What can I do?
They've taken a lot of heat for that,
I expect.
Here's my project window, as it were,
and I'll reveal a few things.
I've got a file of AppleScript.
It's actually currently empty because
I haven't written any script yet.
I have another source.
This is actually some Objective-C code.
All it does is initialize the
AppleScript kit and then say,
let's start the application running.
We don't need to change anything there.
What we do want to do first
is set up our user interface.
So I'll open this nib file and...
I didn't seem to get a new project here,
so I'm going to start over.
Maybe I have one by that name already,
so let's call it FooDemo.
All right.
Let's go back, open our nib file,
which is our UI.
I guess it wants to give me a movie view.
Pretend that that was initially empty.
So that's our movie window.
You can see that I've got
a palette of tools here,
and there's a nice QuickTime logo,
so let's drag that over here.
As usual, I'll put it up at the
top left just for kicks.
Now I want to open the info panel here.
I'm actually done.
That's all I'm going
to put in this window,
so I'll get rid of that.
It shows me the attributes
of my movie view there.
Let's go to this panel, AppleScript.
And I want to give
that movie view a name,
so let's call it MovieView.
Again, as in these high-level
scripting languages,
I'm going to refer to things by name.
I'm actually not going to attach
any script to the movie view,
but I will attach it to the window.
So it's already got a name there,
so I don't know why I'm getting this.
I thought I opened a new empty project,
but that's the name
I would have given it,
Movie Window.
And what I want to do is
remember with REALbasic,
we added some code to the open routine.
With Revolution,
we added some code to the open stack.
Now we want to add some code
to when this window is opened.
And the Cocoa terminology
is when we awake from nib.
Nib is the file that our
resources are stored in here.
And the script that we're going
to attach is already said to be
in the file foodemo.applescript.
Let me just check here
that I've got everything.
Let me go back here to its properties.
I don't want it visible at launch time.
That was the default,
and I've turned off this
deferred for various reasons.
Okay,
I think that might be all we need there.
Let me go back to the
AppleScript panel and do Edit Script.
You can see I've got
just a skeleton here,
and it says add my script here,
so that's what I'll do.
So it's an onAwakeFromNibHandler,
and the object here is the object
that the script is attached to,
which is the window.
So if I want to do
anything to the window,
I can call it the object.
So again, I'm going to look for, oh,
how about five lines of code here?
First, I'll define a local variable,
setMovieView.
[Transcript missing]
And it is of the object.
So the window has a movie view in it.
The name of that movie
view is movie view.
So I've set the local variable
movie view to the movie view.
Okay.
If everybody's confused, wonderful.
That just keeps me from having
to repeat this movie view,
movie view of the object all the time.
Let us set another local variable,
movie path, to what?
Remember, I want to put up the
file opening dialog box,
so that's choose file.
Could it get any easier?
Once that's done, I want to set the movie
"Of movie view,
that's got a movie associated with it,
To the result of loading the movie,
which is MoviePath.
So choose file gives me back a path name.
I put that into the
local variable moviePath.
I load the movie in that path
and assign it to the movie
associated with the movie view.
And finally, I want to show the object
which was initially invisible.
So let's see what
happens if we build that.
Who's bugging me here?
Okay, now let's run it within the IDE.
There's my file selection dialog box.
I can open a movie.
And what's wrong?
It's the wrong size.
Right?
It's the size of the movie view.
Why?
I didn't add any code in to set
the size of the movie window.
Right, let's go back to my code window.
All I did was select a file,
attach that movie in the
file to the movie view,
and make the movie window visible.
I didn't do any sizing here.
Why didn't I do any sizing?
Because, unfortunately,
there's no vocabulary built
into AppleScript Studio that
allows me to do that.
So in order to find the
natural size of the movie,
I need to go beyond AppleScript Studio.
And this is actually a good segue.
I think we're moving on to
advanced QuickTime usage here.
Can we have slides for a second?
So far we've seen really,
how much time did that take?
45 minutes, so just over 10 minutes per
development environment.
We see that basic movie playback is easy.
We haven't talked about movie editing.
That can be a bit harder.
Some of these environments
support it automatically.
Some of them don't.
What about full access
to the QuickTime APIs?
What if I really want to have a
REAL QuickTime application that
does something more than just
open movies and play them back?
And this is a good opportunity to
segue into that particular issue.
Let's go back to VGA2, please.
So the problem we need to solve now is,
how do I determine with an
AppleScript Studio what the
natural size of the movie was?
Visual Basic, Runtime Revolution,
Visual Basic all gave
me that information.
AppleScript Studio doesn't,
so we have to go beyond it.
Now this is the portion
where I stop typing and use
a canned project that I have.
So I'm going to open
one that I did earlier.
Let's look at the script.
Ignore that for a minute.
Everything other than that is
what we did just a second ago.
is our way of sizing
the movie appropriately,
and the key here is this
call method instruction.
Basically, call method says, all right,
I'm Apple Script Studio, I'm good,
but I can't do everything.
So go call this other method
and come back to me with
whatever output it gives you.
What method am I calling?
I'm calling a method
called controller rect,
and I'm going to pass it a parameter,
namely the movie view,
or the NS movie view
for those Cocoa people.
So somewhere out there in my
application is defined this method,
controller rect, and it's going to give
me back a rectangle.
And let's just briefly look at
what I do with that rectangle.
I copy it to some local variables,
I get the bounds of the window,
and then I do a little bit of math to
set the size of the window appropriately.
The magic number 20 here is the
size of the window title bar,
because in Cocoa, when I size a window,
I don't just give it the
size of the content region,
but I give it the size
of the whole window.
So everybody should be happy with this,
except for this magic
little control erect method.
Where does that come from?
What I'm going to do,
or what I have done,
is add two files to my
project called MovieCat,
and what they do is define what's
called a category on a Cocoa class.
A category is a way to add methods
to an existing class without actually
having the source code for that class.
You can see what I've done here.
I have said,
there's this class out there,
an existing class called NSApplication.
I want to have this
category called MovieCat,
and it's going to have
one additional method,
namely control erect.
It takes an NSMovie view and
gives me back a rectangle.
Let's look at how I implemented that.
Amen.
Very easy stuff.
It's just using QuickTime APIs.
Fundamentally,
it's calling getMovieNaturalBoundsRect
on the movie,
the actual QuickTime movie identifier.
Where do I get that?
Well,
Cocoa allows me to get two useful items,
the movie controller identifier
and the QuickTime movie identifier.
You can see I'm sending to the movie
view the movie controller method.
It's giving me back an item
of type movie controller.
And also, I send the movie method
to the movie view.
That gives me back an NSMovie,
which I then send the QTMovie method to,
which gives me back a QuickTime movie.
So, after all that, I can get the natural
bounds of the movie,
I then kick it up by 16 if
the controller bar is visible,
and I pass that back
to whoever called me.
So this is a very useful example of what
do you do when AppleScript Studio doesn't
have the vocabulary you need?
Very easily you can go to Objective-C,
add a category or other
method to some existing class,
and solve your problems.
So let's run this now and
see if it actually works.
Okay,
so there's my file selection dialog box.
Let's try the Fire Movie.
So that's sized appropriately.
Let's try it again.
See if our music video
comes out the right size.
Bingo, no problem.
Did everybody hear that?
When I hit the spacebar
to start the movie?
I'll do it again.
I'm going to turn the
volume all the way down.
So I'm hitting the spacebar
to start the movie.
What do you hear?
You hear the system beat.
Or if I hit the arrow keys to
advance it one frame forward,
You also hear that.
That's just a flat-out bug in Jaguar's
implementation of NSMovieView.
Basically, what's happening is the
application is saying,
I got a button press.
Would somebody out there
please handle it for me?
It sends that event to the
movie controller saying,
I got a button press.
Would you like to handle it?
As you can see, the movie controller
actually does handle it.
The movie does start playing,
but the movie controller is
clever enough not to tell whoever
called it that it handled it.
Then Cocoa says, nobody handled this,
and its default behavior is to beep.
That's just a flat-out bug in
Jaguar's NSMovie that is fixed,
as you will discover, in Panther.
If I were running this on Panther,
I wouldn't even have to
talk about this problem.
Let me run one more.
This time let's go for the VR movie.
What's wrong with this picture?
It's reversed.
And again,
the scrolling is bass-ackwards here.
So, again, this is just a flat-out bug.
This time it's... Who am
I going to blame it on?
Let's blame it on NSMovieView.
[Transcript missing]
So we've already seen one way in which,
with AppleScript Studio,
we can get access to
the full QuickTime APIs.
What about REALbasic?
I didn't demonstrate this,
and actually I should,
because there's a very useful
capability of REALbasic.
Let me go back to... Again,
I'm just going to pull up a
canned one here to save myself
the embarrassment of bad typing.
Looks just like before.
Let's pull up our movie window.
Let's look at -- let's just run it,
actually.
Well, let me first look at our code.
Good.
It's commented out.
Wonderful.
Let me run this.
Okay, file opening dialog box,
select a movie, movie opens,
movie sizes correctly.
Now I'm gonna hit the spacebar again.
What happened?
Nothing happened.
The movie didn't start.
The default behavior of the
QuickTime movie controller
is to ignore keyboard input.
Okay?
So if I want that to happen here,
which I probably do,
I need to explicitly turn that on.
So let's quit that.
Let's go back to this.
How can I explicitly turn on the keyboard
support for the movie controller?
There's this magic
function called MCDoAction,
which basically says, yo,
movie controller,
which is the software governing the
playback and the display of the movie,
I want you to do something for me.
We can get, using REALbasic,
the movie controller
identifier using this method.
I'm going to send it the action 32,
which I happen to know means,
please turn on keyboard input.
And I'm going to pass it the value 1,
which means turn it on and not off.
So if it were on and I wanted it off,
I could pass a 0.
So I've just put that right in
the middle of my REALbasic code.
Can I do that?
Does REALbasic understand these
arbitrary functions from arbitrary
libraries out there in the system?
No, it doesn't, but it will if I tell it.
So up here above, you can see,
let me cut this out,
because I don't even know
that that's accurate.
I'm saying, if I'm running on Carbon,
I'm going to tell you that there's
this function I want to call,
and it's called MCDoAction.
And I need to tell REALbasic two things.
I need to tell it what library
that function is located in.
It's located in Apple Carbon Multimedia.
And then I need to tell REALbasic
what the parameters are,
and here I've listed them.
There's a movie controller,
there's an action, and then a value.
And if I scroll over,
it shows that it returns a value.
So once I have told REALbasic
what this function is,
what library it's located in,
and what its parameters are,
I can then call it.
So let's try this.
Let's try running that
with our new code in there.
Select a movie.
I'm going to hit the spacebar,
and it starts running.
So with one line of code
plus the declare statement,
I can get access to any API in
any library on my system.
Let's just check that the
arrow keys are working.
Wonderful.
Okay, so we saw what we do with
AppleScript Studio if we need
to go beyond what's built in.
We can declare extra methods.
With REALbasic, we can declare individual
API calls and use those.
If we want to do something more,
then we need to write a plug-in.
Why would we ever want to do something
more than just call individual functions?
Well, the standard mindset is
that you call QuickTime,
but in the Soviet Union,
QuickTime calls you.
That is to say, sometimes it's going
to call code in my...
[Transcript missing]
So how would you define a
callback function in REALbasic?
I don't know that you can.
Possibly you could,
but if you want to do that,
I think the easiest way
is to write a plug-in.
This is just a module,
typically written in C,
that you link in with your
REALbasic application,
and then you can call it in pretty much
the same way that we called MCDoAction.
The only difference being that you don't
actually have to declare the function
and where it is and what its parameters
are if you're packaging it as a plug-in.
I see I've got time,
so let me show you what
a plug-in looks like.
Let me not show you what
a plugin looks like.
Ah, here we go.
Let me show you what a plugin looks like.
I'm going to launch this project.
This should bring up CodeWarrior.
Okay, this is a CodeWarrio project.
Most of this code comes straight
from REALbasic's samples.
The only thing I've added,
there's this file externals.c,
and we can see that I have defined here
A number of functions, MCInitialize,
MCUndo, Cut, Copy, Paste, Clear.
What this tells me is that
movie controller editing,
Cut, Copy, Paste, Clear,
is not built into REALbasic.
If it was, I wouldn't need to do this.
But I can get that capability
by creating this plugin that
has those functions defined.
So let's just take a
look at one of those,
mccut.
It's getting the movie controller, yada,
yada, yada.
It's basically calling a built-in
QuickTime function MCCut.
It's actually taking the movie that
I cut and putting it on the scrapbook
so that if I then want to paste it,
I can do that.
And so what I've got here is just a whole
bunch of C code that I can then build.
[Transcript missing]
Thank you very much.
This is a nice application.
It's a full multi-window application.
It's more what you think
of as an application.
[Transcript missing]
Everything works fine.
So if I need to go beyond
what's built into REALbasic,
I can either do it
individually one at a time,
or I can write a plug-in.
Same thing with Visual Basic.
Keith didn't need to do this,
because here I'm showing what you might
have to do in Visual Basic 6 if you
wanted to size your window appropriately.
The system metric stuff is
built into Visual Basic.net,
but not into 6.
So you may actually have to call an
individual... Can we get slides back up?
Okay, here we go.
So this is the same syntax
that we saw in REALbasic for
declaring an external function,
and this would tell you, for instance,
how wide the frame is on the
window so that you could size
your window appropriately.
For RunTime Revolution, again,
it doesn't have the declare
functionality that I know of,
but you can write a plugin similar
to what we saw there that would
give you additional capabilities
within your application.
And finally,
we already saw what we needed
to do with AppleScript Studio.
Use this call method statement to go
out and call Objective-C functions.
Okay.
Enhancement opportunities.
These are really good environments.
I wouldn't be up here talking
about them if I didn't think
they were worth talking about.
So each one of these four will
allow you to build real-life,
solid applications.
Each one of them, however,
has some issues that I think they
could work on to make them even better.
RealBasic has what I call runtime issues.
Remember when the fire wouldn't
burn unless my mouse was moving
around and I went and I put
a timer object in the window?
That's a kludge, okay?
Something ought to be fixed
within RealBasic so that I'm
getting events more regularly.
Let's launch my full
featured application.
Okay.
Thank you.
So I've launched my...let's open a file.
Actually, I don't want to use this one
because I fixed it in this.
[Transcript missing]
Remember we went in and we
added the code that said,
please enable movie controller,
or enable the keyboard input
so that I can use my keyboard
to manipulate the movie.
And we saw that it worked, right?
But it only worked because I was running
it inside the IDE using the debug mode.
It turns out that if I take that
same application and double-click
it in the finder and open it up,
the keyboard just won't work.
So there's something gone wrong there.
It's probably a very simple fix that
they could implement to fix that.
Amen.
Other enhancement opportunity,
and this one is fairly important.
So I talked about callback functions,
where QuickTime is going to
call code in your application.
One of the most important
callback functions is what's
called a movie controller action
filter callback procedure,
just to make it even
longer than it is there.
The idea being that when the
movie controller does something
or is about to do something,
it will notify your application,
giving your application the
opportunity sometimes to cancel
that or sometimes to enhance that.
An example might be if you have a custom
button in your movie controller bar.
I don't have it in any of these.
Sometimes you see a little
downward-pointing triangle
in the movie controller bar.
When somebody clicks on that,
the movie controller
will send you an event.
Or an action saying,
"The user just clicked on the button.
What should I do?" At that point,
you could drop down your own
menu or do whatever you wanted.
So these are very useful
callback functions to define.
I actually went ahead and in
my REALbasic plugin defined a
movie controller action filter
procedure to do this kind of stuff,
and I quickly discovered one thing,
is that REALbasic also installs a movie
controller action filter procedure.
And I discovered this because some
of its built-in capabilities broke.
The problem being is that you only
get one of these per movie controller.
So when I added mine in,
it basically booted REALbasics,
and so I was able to get one
of these per movie controller.
So some of the real
basics capabilities broke.
There is a way around this,
and basically it involves REALbasic,
and we'll also see this
affects RunTime Revolution.
Need to come to Apple and talk
about this issue and figure out
how we can have several of these
things running around at once.
Visual Basic enhancement opportunities,
not too many there because, well,
it really depends on which of these
ActiveX controls you're using.
Some of them are more
full-featured than others.
One interesting thing is that,
remember I talked about the declare
statement working in Visual Basic the
same way it works in REALbasic.
There's only one problem,
which is actually a big one.
In Visual Basic 6,
you cannot use the declare
statement to access QuickTime APIs.
That's a pretty big limitation,
and it has to do with calling sequences
of what Visual Basic expects and what
the QuickTime library is putting out.
RunTime Revolution.
Again,
there's a few runtime issues we saw with
the fire not quite burning correctly.
I think they can get those worked out.
I already mentioned it installs a movie
control reaction filter procedure.
Again,
a fairly important issue that we need
to work out between them and Apple.
AppleScript Studio enhancement
opportunities.
Fairly limited vocabulary
right now for handling movies.
There's only about 13 properties that
with pure AppleScript I can get in set.
We saw that it was fairly easy
to work around that limitation,
but it would be nicer if more and more
properties were available natively.
Another opportunity for
them to do some work,
which is both good and bad,
AppleScript Studio applications
are Cocoa applications,
so they inherit any
features of Cocoa classes,
but as we saw, they also inherit any
bugs from Cocoa classes,
and we saw two of those
that have been fixed,
thankfully.
Okay,
most of this I've already talked about.
For those development
environments that install a
MovieControllerActionFilter procedure,
they need to get together
with Apple and figure out how
to work around that problem.
One interesting thing is
I'm begging them to please,
when you open a file,
open it with read-write permissions.
Your development environment
may not support editing,
so you may not think that you need
to open it with write permission.
But if I'm a clever programmer,
I can write a plugin to support editing.
But I've got this edited movie,
what do I do with it?
I'm all dressed up and
I've got nowhere to go.
I can't put it back into the
original file if that file has been
opened with read-only permission.
REALbasic, of course,
opening it as an edible file,
opens it with read-write permissions.
RunTime Revolution opens files
with read-only permission.
So once I've written my plugin
to edit this movie nicely,
again,
I've got nothing to do with it other
than to put it into some other file.
The Skylight ActiveX control is kind
of a funny case because it's got
built in all these editing methods,
but it opens the movie
file with read permission.
So why is it giving me all these methods
if I can't save it into the file?
Finally, and most of the people do this,
although again, interestingly enough,
Skylight does not,
make sure that there's a way that I can
get the movie and movie controller
identifiers so that within my plug-in,
I can take advantage of that.
Okay, now for some boilerplate.
Here's some contact information for
Real Software and RunTime Revolution.
I should mention we have
representatives from both of these
companies in the audience today,
so afterwards maybe they could
come up to the front here,
and if you have specific
questions for them,
that would be wonderful.
Here's contact information
for the ActiveX stuff.
The AppleScript Studio stuff.
And finally,
if this was not enough detail for you,
there's been a very nice
series of magazine articles
in Mac Tech Magazine starting
last December and extending
out into the future discussing
these various environments.
So if you want the gory, gory details,
I highly recommend picking
up these magazines.
And there's some
documentation on QuickTime,
not generally relevant to
what I just talked about.
and today ongoing for the rest
of the day are the QuickTime labs
downstairs in the Sacramento room.
If you want to sit down and talk
to some QuickTime engineers or some
really good content creation people,
I highly recommend you stop down there.
and there's me, Keith Guillermo.
And we have a little bit
of time to take questions.